
<div><strong>Life's worth is in living a good life, and to help and support others - all species, including humans. Life is not about dying for anyone, but its about living to its full potential.</strong> Many of us, keep ignoring ourselves, and put our mental and physical health on stake. We work so hard for our organizations and our family, that we feel like becoming a martyr for them. That's not how it works. A soldier on borders, who's always on the line of fire knows what's the worth of life. He's not told by his officer to go and get a bullet on his head. He's told to kill the last enemy alive, and thats the worth of his life, which can only be achieved by living to full potetial.<p><strong>You have to make a habbit of loving and caring your ownself.</strong> Without that you wont be able to go on, for long. You would only be able to help others, if you yourself remain fit, healthy and balanced. If you do not want to <strong>drag yourself miserably towards the end, being treated for N number of diseases, you just need to have few basic habits, simple ones, which if you carry-out with discipline, will take you far,</strong> that too without being miserable.</p><p>One, you need to <strong>keep your sleeping routine fixed</strong> - which you will follow in all circumstances, except emergency. <strong>Get rid of screens long before you go to the bed</strong>, no matter how compelling the laptop, TV or mobile stuff is. Dont keep them in your bedroom, if possible. <strong>Sleep for atleast 7-8 hours.</strong> Last meal for the day, your dinner, should be taken atleast 2 hours before the bed. <strong>Try to wake-up before the sunrise.</strong></p><p>Two, <strong>go for some physical exercise- stretching, bending, swimming, yoga, etc.</strong> Not just cycling, running or weightlifting. Try not to focus on just one part of your body, but <strong>go for a whole body workout. Do it for 30-45 mins, every morning, if possible, before sunrise </strong>or as early as possible after you wakeup. You'll also feel energised, after early morning exercise. <strong>In the evening as well, try to do some physical exercise, atleast 20-30 mins - this will help you get sound sleep.</strong> Exercise is important not just for your body, its also very important for your mind and soul. It shows that you care and love yourself, and you are ready to take some time out for it. Your focus will move to yourself, even if just for 1-2 hours daily - but it matters. Otherwise, in your 24 hours time you probably will not even give a second to think about yourself, let alone loving, caring and nurturing yourself. For sure, daily exercise routine will make you feel less miserable towards the later phase of your life. And while other around you were having joint pains, arthritis, BP, sugar, and what not, you might still be enjoying like in your early days, provided you are still following your good habits of daily exercise.</p><p>Third, <strong>keep your digestive system working alright.</strong> This can only happen if you <strong>drink atleast 10-12 glasses of water everyday.</strong> And, <strong>eat balanced diet, a nutricious diet</strong> - which should have all the vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and as less fat as possible. In today's era, most of us are going through diseases which relates to the improper functioning of our digestive system - liver issues, kidney issues, gastric, ulcers, high BP, high sugar, hair and skin problems, variety of internal pains, thigh pain, stomach pain, headaches, etc. Choice is food is very important factor, in living a good and healthy life. Its not just about looks, it majorly about how you feel from inside. Try to avoid smoking, it not just helps you but helps sorrounding community as well. Try to avoid alcohol and carbonated beverages. Don't go for too much of coffee or tea - mugs after other - not to have it more than 2-3 times a day.</p><p>Lastly, make sure you work on religiously, with as much discipline, on the points One, Two and Three. Your organization is important, your family is quite important and your objectives are important as well. <strong>But all the goals achievements, accomplisments, accolades, and happy people around should not be there at the expense of you losing and paying price with your physical or mental health. Your health loss, sleeplessness, tired body, pains, etc is your loss. Your stress, frustrations, mood swings, loss of laughter and smile - all these mental health problems is your loss.</strong> But as someone rightly said, <strong>"you yourself as much as anybody else is the world needs your love and care."</strong> - so keep yourself healthy and happy. If you are happy inside, you will share more love and compassion outside. Again, some said it so beautifully,<strong>"you can only give what you have."</strong> - if you dont have love and care inside then how do you expect to give same to people around you.</p>
</div>

Tune this channel every once in a while and do <a href="mailto:myxcents@egmail.com">send me your love and feeback</a>.