<div><p><i>In my life, I had had so many reasons to remain unhappy, dejected, disappointed, frustrated, angry, in despair, resentful, hateful and way too much stressed. And, many a times I had no reasons, literally, at all to feel so bad, unpleasant, stressed and worried. Then, I was also looking for reasons to be offended, be angry, say some bad words, get into an argument or fight, and feel a lot more bad, unpleasant and stressed. This whole thing was happening, like, in a cyclic order - day after day, weeks, months, years, and so. And, I was not at all feeling like getting out of it. I was just trying to solve it a little more, by thinking more. And the more I think and try to solve it, the more I was getting trapped into these habits. </i></p><p>All of it was happening, and I was blaming like the whole world around me, for my despair. And after a  while, I also involved myself into that blame game - but that didn't change a thing about this vicious circle, not even a bit of it. Now, I started to figure myself out like I was trying to fix everyone and everything around me. But like that didn't happen, this didn't happen too - neither I was able to change situations or others nor myself. I was trying to change myself a lot, inside my head for sure but not in actions. This again went on for a long period.</p><p>One day, like every other day, I woke-up and had those thousands of thoughts and reasons, in my head, which were calling me to them, to again start a beautiful morning with lot to stress and ruin my day. Then, suddenly I sat-up on my bed, and thought <strong>"why in the world am I so worried and stressed? Are there any good reasons for that? Most of the reasons I was worried about were not even qualified to be called reasons to be stressed or worried about."</strong> Which means I was literally fooling myself, and was unhappy, worried and stressed for no good/bad reasons around. Then, I thought a life changing thought, the crux of this whole article - <strong>If there are two boxes, one labelled "be stressed with & without reasons" and the other one labelled "be happy without any reasons", </strong>then which one should you choose? Without a wasting a second, I would go for the box labelled "be happy without any reasons". I am sure you would do the same if given such a choice. And, I shall tell you we all have that choice - everyday, every moment.</p><p>Most of the philosophical people or spiritual gurus would have told you already - <strong>"find a reason to be happy"</strong>. They say, and I am not objecting to that, <strong>"You should be grateful, feel blessed and happy for the food you eat, for the roof and shelter, good parents or faithful wife or beautiful kids, nice clothes, or just that you are alive and breathing, and also for not have any physical conditions to deal with."</strong></p><p><i>But why I need a reason to be happy? Just because if I don't have one then people might call me crazy, mad or tag some other mental issue to me. Now, that's a worrying condition, no? That what people will say about me, if I look happy or in a good mood and someone asks the reason for it - I have nothing to say. But if I look stressed, worked-up and some one asks then I can always have some situation or someone to tell about. </i></p><p>You may have seen few people, rare ones though, who appears to be happy, and walking around with that smiling face and talks with harmony, laughs and never argues with anyone - you must have noticed that many other people calls these cheerful few (behind their back) "fake". Even their close friends are also in dilemma most of the time if its real or not. <strong>These always happy people even don't have many friends. Because they don't waste time cribbing around. They also don't have much to stress about, to give-in to drugs or alcohol, so they loose that company too. </strong>They are hardly die-hard followers to any gurus, as they have already mastered what those gurus are telling in basic sessions of life. Now, when you ask these rare people who always seem to be happy, <strong>the reason for their happiness - 9/10 times they would say "simply, I just feel like that". And that's a reason, good enough,</strong> to my intelligence. Not sure about everyone though.</p><p>Question is <strong>"why should we have to have a reason, an answer to carry, for being someone?".</strong> If someone if shy, introvert or speaks occasionally - we doesn't demand a reason for that, we know that. Or if someone is extrovert or outspoken - we don't ask why. If someone likes to go to temple or church, or is given-into God, we don't ask why he/she is so devoted. Someone, just likes to solve puzzles and others just love to make music or do crafting or just love to travel. They all don't need to have a reason for what they do. And you don't ask why do you do what you do? So, <strong>I shouldn't be having a reason to be happy or do what makes me happy or keeps me in a pleasant state.</strong></p><p><i>I always wonder, why since our childhood, we were not taught to be happy. They don't tell us, nobody - neither our teachers nor our parents, that "hey kid - be happy" - find reasons to be happy or just be happy for no reason at all. In nursery, may be, there are a few rhymes, but how everything else is carried out, our kids are going to be worried and stressed, from a very young age. Thanks to the whole system, that makes great engineers, doctors, scientists, bureaucrats, politicians - but not a happy being.</i></p><p>So, next time you look at someone or something, that you feel should change, because it makes you unhappy. Just remember, you need a reason or no reason, to be just happy. Don't just wish for happiness, work for it. Start with a list of things, in an order that you follow from morning to night, that can make you happy. And, whenever you feel you are out reasons and things and you are just alone, nothing to do which can make you happy - then think about all those moments from recent past or  near future, whatever can make or bring your happy state back. And, right before I wind-up, I have this small advise for my friends out there, who happens to read my thoughts and reached here - <strong>the biggest reason that can make you happy every single moment of your life is "not to find reasons and logic behind every thing that happens around". Sometimes just witness whats happening, sink it in, feel it, without being judgemental about it and then let it go.</strong> Go to the next moement and repeat the same, and to the next and next and so on.</p></div>


Tune this channel every once in a while and do <a href="mailto:myxcents@egmail.com">send me your love and feeback</a>.